bra_pagination
==============

A complex jQuery pagination and filter plugin

[DEMO](http://kunden.agentur-brandung.de/kunden_projekte/bra-download-builder/demo/bra_pagination/)

## How to use

### Step 1 - Add markup
The bra_pagination markup is simple. First, start with a single list container, ```<ul class="sort-list">``` in this example. Then, create ```<li class="items">``` elements as much as you need. It is important to use this class because the pagination targets that class specifically. If you want another class name you must specify it in the options. Put your images and anything else you desire into each <li> and you are ready to rock.
```html
<ul class="sort-list">
  <li class="items"></li>
  <li class="items"></li>
  <li class="items"></li>
</ul>
```

### Step 2 - Init the plugin

```javascript
$(function(){
  $('.sort-list').bra_pagination();
});
```

### How to use the filter module
To filter items, you must add ```data-``` attributes to each of them. The plugin crawl through all items and append filter values automatically, sort by type, to the DOM. Available filter types are ```filter-pattern```, ```filter-tab``` and ```filter-checkbox``` follow by the filter attribute. **e.g.** ```data-filter-pattern-color="blue"``` This item can be filtered by color blue.
```html
<ul class="sort-list">
  <li class="items" data-filter-pattern-color="blue" data-filter-tab-qm="1" data-filter-tab-offer="1" data-filter-checkbox-size="XL"></li>
  <li class="items" data-filter-pattern-color="red"></li>
  <li class="items" data-filter-checkbox-size="L"></li>
</ul>
```

## Available options
Listed below are all of the options available to customize the pagination and filter plugin to suite your needs, along with their default values.

OPTION | TYPE | DEFAULT | DESCRIPTION
--- | --- | --- | ---
**namespace** | String  | 'bra-' | Prefix string attached to the class of every element generated by the plugin
**itemSelector** | String | '.items' | Class-Selector: Items who should be used for the paging
**itemsOnPage** | Integer | 9 | Number of active items on every page
**currentPage** | Integer | 1 | Page to be started
**controlsContainer** | Object | null | jQuery Object whose contains the control navigation - example: $('.pagingContainer')
**maxDisplayedButtons** | Integer | 3 | Number of Buttons who should be shown - excluding minEndButtons!
**minEndButtons** | Integer | 2 | Number of Buttons at the begin and end of paging navigation who should be shown
**firstLastButton** | Boolean | true | Show first and last navigation buttons
**prevText** | String | '<' | Set the text for the "previous" directionNav item
**nextText** | String | '>' | Set the text for the "next" directionNav item
**firstText** | String | '<<' | Set the text for the "go to first" directionNav item
**lastText** | String | '>>' | Set the text for the "go to last" directionNav item
**ellipseText** | String | '&hellip;' | Set the text for the "placeholder" direction items
**filter** | Boolean | false | Set to true if items should be filtered
**filterContainer** | Object | null | jQuery Object whose contains the filter modules - example: $('.filterContainer')
**filterWrapperSelector** | String | '.filter-wrapper' | Class-Selector name who be used for each filter wrapper
**filterResetButtons** | String | '.filter-reset' | Class-Selector name for reset button
**filterResetText** | String | 'Filter zurücksetzen' | Set text for the filter reset button
**showAttributeCount** | Boolean | false | Displays the number of filtered items 
**search** | Boolean | false | Set to true if items could be searched
**searchSelector** | String | '#bra-input-search' | Selector for the search input field
**onInit** | Function | Optional | Callback triggered immediately after initialization
**onFilter** | Function | Optional | Callback triggered after filter toggle
**onFilterReset** | Function | Optional | Callback triggered after filter reset
**onUpdate** | Function | Optional | Callback triggered after update

## Available methods

### prevPage
Selects the previous page.
```javascript
$([selector]).bra_pagination('prevPage');
```
==============
### nextPage
Selects the next page
```javascript
$([selector]).bra_pagination('prevPage');
```
==============
### updateItemsOnPage
Allows to dynamically change how many items are rendered on each page
```javascript
$([selector]).bra_pagination('updateItemsOnPage', 20);
```
==============
### update
The pagination is drawn again using the existing settings. (useful after you have destroyed a paginationfor example). Methode is also used by the search function 
```javascript
$([selector]).bra_pagination('update');
```
==============
### destroy
Visually destroys the pagination, any existing settings are kept
```javascript
$([selector]).bra_pagination('destroy');
```
==============
### getPagesCount
Returns the total number of pages.
```javascript
$([selector]).bra_pagination('getPagesCount');
```
==============
### getCurrentPage
Returns the current page number.
```javascript
$([selector]).bra_pagination('getCurrentPage');
```
==============
### filterReset
Restore all filter settings
```javascript
$([selector]).bra_pagination('filterReset');
```
==============
### filterToggle
Activate or deactivate items by given filter options ([data attribute name], [data value])
```javascript
$([selector]).bra_pagination('filterToggle', 'filter-pattern-color', 'blue');
```
==============
### sortItems
Sorts the elements according to given parameters. Alphabetic or numeric, and either ascending or descending.
Must be an array with two values! ([  [sort property], [sorting] ])
```javascript
$([selector]).bra_pagination('sortItems', ['price', 'asc']);
```
**Available sort properties:**

PROPERTY | EXAMPLE | DESCRIPTION
--- | --- | ---
text | text | sort items by text
[data-attribute-name] | 'price' | sort items by data-attribute 'price'
.class | '.item' | sort items by class name  - must start with '.'

**Available sort order properties:**

PROPERTY | DESCRIPTION
--- | ---
asc | sort ascending
desc | sort descending
==============
